.TH DERPIGET 1

.SH NAME
derpiGET \- Tool of Mass Equine Acquisition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.hy 0
.B derpiget
[opt] [ID|URL]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B derpiget
is a tool designed for downloading posts and their respective meta data from
.I Booru-on-rails
Image Boards, primarily
.I Derpibooru
an image board created and run by fans of the My Little Pony franchise
.PP
It may function with other
.I Booru-on-rails
image boards, but compatabillity is not garaunteed and is not a priority.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-? ", " --help
Display Help Message

.TP
.BR \-c ", " --config
Print configuration to stdout

Note: This will cause the script to exit.

.TP
.BR \-\-config=<file>
User an alternative config file

if
.I <FILE>
is left empty, then no file is used and the default configuration is used instead

.TP
.BR \-\-domain=<url>
Change the target domain

The target domain is normally:
.I derpibooru.org

You might, for example try:
.B derpiget --domain=trixiebooru.org

.TP
.BR \-\-filter=<ID>
Sets content filter, used by the Search Option. Possible values are any Numerical ID
or any Numerical ID.

Alternatively you can use:
.B default, legacy, everything, dark,
or
.B r34
which correspond to filters listed on:
.I https://derpibooru.org/filters

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-http
Don't use
.B HTTPS

.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-https
DO use
.B HTTPS

.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-meta
Save Meta Data in addition to requested files in corresponding JSON files

.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-meta\-only
Save
.I ONLY
the Meta Data of the requested files in corresponding JSON files

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-save
Don't save any files at all

.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Run silently and non-intractively.

In circumstances the user would be ordinarily be prompted, the script will
assume that the answer is
.I yes
automatically.

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-print\-meta
Print the file's meta data to stdout.

This is the
.I jq
formatted output of the
.I Booru-on-rails
JSON API

.TP
.BR \-\-search=<Query>
Get a list of search results from the image board.

The search syntax is documented here:
.I https://derpibooru.org/search/syntax

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-short\-name
Shorten files to their ID and extension only.

Normally, whatever the server named the file would be preserved.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration files can be used to change how
.B derpiget
behaves. The file is sought for in a varity of locations on the system
and the first configuration file located is used.
.PP
Locations are prioritized in this order:

.I $HOME/.derpigetrc

.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/derpiget.conf

.I $XDG_DATA_HOME/derpiget/derpiget.conf

.I /etc/derpiget.conf

If XDG variables are unset, their values are defaulted to standards defined here:

.I https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html

.TP
.BR "Exmaple Config:"
protocol=https

domain=derpibooru.org

filter=default
